# A Quasi-Optimal Shape Design Method for Lattice Structure Construction (LatticeConstruction)

- By: Sifan Chen and Qiang Zou
-  email: qzou.code@gmail.com
- webpage: https://qiang-zou.github.io/
- Latest Release: June 6, 2025

## !important
The source code is for the method presented in [1,2]

It can be compiled with CUDA 11.8 + MSVC 14.0, and run on the operating system Windows 10.


1.Copyright
-----------
LatticeConstruction is GNU licensed. It is developed by Sifan Chen, supervised under Qiang Zou, based on [1,2]. All rights about the program are reserved by Qiang Zou. This source codes are made available only to a primary user for academic purposes. No secondary use, such as copy, distribution, diversion, business purpose, etc., is allowed. In no event shall the author be liable to any party for direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damage arising out of the use of this program. LatticeConstruction is self-contained. 


2.Download
----------

- The source code, as well as the testing data, can be downloaded from the page: 
  
  webpage: https://github.com/Qiang-Zou/XXXX/


3.Installing & Compiling (Windows+MSVC14.0+CUDA11.8+TBB)
-------------------------------------------

- Download CUDA, TBB library. Please select the appropriate version on the official website.

  CUDA: https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit-archive

  TBB: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneTBB

  Before using this code, make sure you have set up relative third-party library's path.

- Simply download the source code to a suitable place, add Eigen Library to the root directory, and use MSVC14.0 to build the project.

4.Usage
-------

- After the compilation you can run the tool shapeDesignLattice.exe inside the ./x64/Release/ directory:

	- **Note** It is recommended to use the "Run in terminal" mode, not mandatory though.  
	- **Note** The data files should be located in ./Data directory. Before using the tool, please unpack all model files to the directory ./Data in advance.  

- To optimize a model, you can simply run the tool shapeDesignLattice.exe. After that you will be asked to input the chord error to control the triangulation quality.

- Note the triangulation results (`.stl` and `.ply` files) are under the ./Results directory.



5.File format
-------------

- The input file should be `.node` and `.edge` files. These files can be generated by `tetgen`, which generates tetrahedral meshes of any 3D polyhedral domains.
- `.node` file: lattice node file
  - line 1: node_number
  - lines 2-n: x y z

- `.edge` file: lattice edge file
  - line 1: edge_number
  - lines 2-n: start_node end_node strut_radius


6.References
-------------
[1] Sifan Chen, Guoyue Luo, Yuan Kong, Qiang Zou, A Quasi-Optimal Shape Design Method for Lattice Structure Construction, ASME Transactions - Journal of Mechanical Design, 2025.

[2] Qiang Zou, Guoyue Luo. Geometric Modeling for Microstructure Design and Manufacturing: A Review of Representations and Modeling Algorithms. Computer-Aided Design (2024): 103834.
